# Student-Performance-During-Covid-19-Pandemic

### Introduction
Students are getting set to return to campus now that the Covid-19 pandemic has subsided. However, we know that there is a significant difference in student performance before and during the pandemic in terms of teaching and learning. Some things can have an impact on a student's performance. It is not only how much a student studies or understands that determines how well he or she scores on an exam. External influences can also have an impact on exam performance. For example, if the student's parents are well educated, the student may receive extra tutoring outside of school hours from his parents, resulting in the student performing well in exams. In this study, the factors that may influence student performance are examined in order to improve the students' exam performance. In addition, the effectiveness of exam preparation will be evaluated. As a student, we should be aware of the aspects that influence performance in order to improve our performance on the exam and pass with flying colors. As a result, the student performance in exams dataset is chosen to investigate the component that influenced the performance outcome.

### Data Collection
The dataset was collected and obtained from Kaggle in CSV files which is 'StudentsPerformance.csv'. Generally, the dataset provides students information and their marks in various subjects. It consists of students’ gender which are male or female, race and ethnicity of the students that are grouped to 5 groups which are group A, group B, group C, group D and group E, and level of education of students’ parents which are some college, associate’s degree, high school, some high school, bachelor’s degree and master degree. It also consists of information on the type of lunch the students have, which are standard or free/reduced and whether the students complete the test preparation course or not. In addition, the dataset includes students’ scores for math, writing and reading.

### Data Source
Data source: https://www.kaggle.com/code/spscientist/student-performance-in-exams/notebook

### Exploratory Data Analysis
Refer to attached PDF document

### Data Analysis
Refer to attached PDF document & R programming code

### Conclusion
In this report, a variety of methods to analyze the student performance dataset were used. These methods included exploratory data analysis, hypothesis testing, ANOVA, goodness of fit, correlation, and regression. Exploratory data analysis helped us to get a better understanding of the data. We were able to identify the distributions of the data, the relationships between the variables, and the outliers. Hypothesis testing allowed us to test specific claims about the data. We were able to test whether there was a significant difference between the means of two groups, whether there was a significant correlation between two variables, and whether a particular model fit the data well. ANOVA allowed us to test whether there was a significant difference between the means of three or more groups. We were able to use ANOVA to test whether there was a difference in the performance of students in different classes, different genders, or different levels of academic achievement. Goodness of fit allowed us to assess how well a particular model fits the data. We were able to use goodness of fit to test whether a normal distribution, a binomial distribution, or a Poisson distribution provided a good fit to the data. Correlation allowed us to assess the strength of the relationship between two variables. We were able to use correlation to determine whether there was a positive or negative correlation between two variables, and whether the correlation was statistically significant. Regression allowed us to predict the value of one variable based on the value of another variable. We were able to use regression to predict the performance of students in a future test based on their performance in a previous class test.The results of our analysis showed that there were a number of factors that influence student performance. These factors included the gender of the student, the level of academic achievement of the student, and the class that the student was taking. We also found that there was a positive correlation between the performance of a student in a previous class test and their performance in a future class test. The methods that we used in this report were effective in helping us to understand the factors that influence student performance. Moreover, these methods can be used to help educators to improve the performance of their students.
